Hello and welcome back to the course and by the programming in today's tutorial we're going to create
a kernel density estimate lot.
It's going to be quite interesting.
Let's dive straight into it.
So how can we visualize audience rating versus Kriti creating what is the first thing that comes to
mind.
Well of course the first thing that comes to mind is a scatterplot and we've already created actually
one of those we created one of them here.
So there we go that's scatterplot through a joint plot.
So it's got those on the left right.
Let's quickly have a look at another method that we've already discussed.
That's using the L.M. plot function so data equals movies X equals Kritik rating y equals audience rating
and Kamaal just put a backslash here.
And what else do we need.
We need to get this Coreg equals full so there's no regression line.
Q equals Giana.
Well let's forget about that for knowledge just run that there's our scatterplot here we gonna say Hue
equals genre and if you're on that there is our scatterplot.
Now we can say with the colors now we can say backslash so we can say XYZ for instance equals seven
and aspect equals 1.
So on that I could take some more space.
And one is a good idea because then the boxes or the squares are actually squares.
So that's one way of creating art and that's a solution to visualizing audience rating versus critical
rating.
Again if this is too large you can always say five here or something less to six.
So we're visualizing audience rating versus critique creating.
But what is another way of visualizing that because in our hands We've got the seaborne library which
is very powerful at creating really complex things as you saw here this chart which isn't that complicated
when you think about it is just Baras plot on top of.
It did take us quite some time to create.
That's something Seaborn is not very good at is very good at creating simple stuff that doesn't come
in it's packages that are not prepackage so Python is not the best solution to creating that.
But at the same time if you've got a very complex chart that you want to create then sometimes seaborne
might have the solution ready for you.
And it's always a good idea therefore to kind of look through the seaborne gallery something we talked
about before and see what they have available there or what other functions they have that might suit
the analysis that you're doing and the function that we're going to talk about this time is the kernel
density estimate Pusat.
All right so let's create one.
And as you'll see just now it'll take us literally a couple of seconds so I'm getting a kiddie Plaut
.
S and is that kiddie plot.
Movies Daut critic rating movies darte audience rating.
And then I'm going to say Baz's do that.
Run that done.
So that took less than a minute.
And this is pretty much the same chart but instead of the dots is actually got the kernel density estimate
and the kernel density estimate you can kind of tell by looking at the chart what it does.
You can always look it up and read more about kernel density estimate to understand the exact definition
or how it's created.
But in essence it's showing you exactly what you expect to show you where the most density is so the
most Dancy's over here as you can see that is correct.
Does look like it's correct on my chart.
And then it shows you how the density is distributed across your chart so you can see as you get a way
further away from the kernel from the center.
That means that density is lower it's fading away.
And there we go so that's our current density estimate.
It allows us to very quickly to see how our data is distributed across these two variables.
It's a very various distribution it allows us to very quickly observe it like that or assess it.
And so we're going to quickly just adjust the kernel density estimates are that looks better.
It's a bit of a heat map or a heat diagram.
So let's have a look at that how we're going to do that.
Well we're going to just simply add some color we're going to say shade equals.
True.
So let's add in your line here.
This is kind of a bit of a preview what's coming.
We're going to be talking about styling at towards the end of this section but this is already something
valuable.
So there you go say shading equals true.
Then if we don't want the shading we still want to see the grid right.
For example if we want to see the grid then we'll just get rid of this last shading of the last letter
so we'll say shaid lowest lowest he calls false so you could shift tab you'll see here shade shade lowest
.
Those are the ones that we're using shade lowest equals false run that you'll see now we still see the
grid and let's change a map so you can say see maps and we'll talk more about the different color palettes
available in seaborne and say see maps equals red.
Get the.
And now we've got a red one and a quick tip and sort also like another preview of what we're going to
have further down in the course.
What I like to do is when I have something that you can see that it's a bit rough on the edges.
Racism see what happens if I zoom out.
It kind of looks a bit better but it's still a bit rough on the edges.
What I like to do kind of a little sneaky trick if I take this one is called B.
What I like to do here is get rid of shades and just leave.
See map equals red.
So if I cancel this out or just comment it out and run that by itself you'll see that we've got the
kernel density estimate but just the outline.
So by running them together what I'm going to have is I'm going to have the shading from this code and
I'm going to have the outline from this code and they're going to be overlaid.
And it's going to look much better.
So there you go so you can see now it's nice and smooth.
It's got those edges around the separate regions.
Looks much better than before.
So just for comparison purposes.
That's without a screen you want here.
So you can see if you compare the two.
This one's got a bit rough here it's nice and smooth and it looks much more professional So the edge
does look like this contoured as opposed to here where it's it's all the same color.
So the feel is the same color as edge.
So there you go you can see them compared they're like.
Personally I prefer this one much more it's looks smoother it looks more professional.
All right.
So there we go.
That's how you create a KDE plots and that's how you also read one that's how you assess your by various
distribution based on the kernel density estimate plot something new something different.
It's not a standard type of chart that you would create in other languages and very frequently it would
be quite complex to create something this sophisticated and yet in seaborne It's literally one line
as you as you recall it took us like less than a minute to create it or something like this took us
much longer.
So there we go that's fascinating phenomenons of Python and the packages.
If you if you use a different package not seaborne than some other charge will be easier to create.
But Sybaris has got some very good looking charts that you can create literally on the fly.
So we go.
Hope you enjoyed this.
Tauriel and a play around with that said try creating kiddie plots for the other numeric variables that
we have it's going to be some good practice as always.
And I'll see you on the next tutorial.
Until then happy coding.